Improve the deleting node section (#507)
harvester/docs: docs/host/host.md

## Deleting a Node

:::caution

To delete a node from a Harvester cluster, it's very important to consider where the remaining nodes in the cluster have enough computing resources and storage capacity to accept the workload from the deleting node. If the remaining nodes don't have enough resources, removing a node might cause some VMs to fail to start or some volumes to degrade. You can check the **Hosts** page for the current resource usage in the cluster, and check if the remaining nodes in the cluster can maintain enough replica counts for all volumes.

:::

### 1. Check if the node can be removed from the cluster

If you plan to remove a control plane node, you must consider the availability of the remaining control plane nodes. We'll discuss this topic in two cases:

- There are 3 control plane nodes in the cluster

>     You can remove a control plane node in this case, but you need to ensure there are worker nodes in the cluster. A worker node will be promoted to a control plane node after you delete the control plane node. Note, that the worker node to promote is selected randomly before Harvester v1.3.0. Starting from Harvester v1.3.0, Harvester supports specifying a role for a new-added node. If you prefer a node to be promoted into a control plane node, you can refer to the [document](https://fix.me) for how to do that.

Reviewer: It looks like we miss a link here.

    If you don't have worker nodes in the cluster, you need to add a new node to the cluster as soon as possible. This ensures the number of control plane nodes is 3 and the control plane quorum can be formed if one of the control plane nodes fails.

- There are only 2 control plane nodes in the cluster and there are no worker nodes

    Removing a control plane node in this situation is not recommended because etcd data is not replicated in a single-node cluster and any failing node brings down the Harvester cluster because etcd loses quorum.

### 2. Check volume status

- Go to the `Volume` page of Longhorn GUI.
- Check all volumes are healthy.

### 3. Evict replicas from the deleting node

> - Go to the **Node** page of the Longhorn GUI.

Reviewer: We can give a link here to show how to access Longhorn GUI.

https://docs.harvesterhci.io/v1.2/troubleshooting/harvester#access-embedded-rancher-and-longhorn-dashboards

Author: Fixed with Jillian's help.

- Wait until replicas on the node become 0. You can go to the **Node** page of the Longhorn GUI, and check the **Replicas** count of the deleting node becomes `0`.

:::note

Note if there are not enough nodes in the cluster to accept the replicas from the deleting node, the eviction can never finish. In this case, you need to consider taking the risk to let some volumes stay degraded until you add more nodes to the cluster.

:::

### 4. Deal with non-migratable VMs

Some VMs can't live-migrate. You need to handle them accordingly:

- VMs with PCI passthrough devices or vGPU devices
    
    A PCI device is bound to a node, you need to remove the PCI device from the VM, or delete the VM and recreate a new VM from a backup/snapshot.

- VMs with a node selector or affinity rules that bind the VMs to the deleting node

    You need to edit the VM and update the node selector or affinity rules.

- VMs with a VLAN network that binds the VMs to the deleting node

    You need to edit the VM and change the VLAN network.

In general, for a non-migratable VM, it's recommended to have a backup first and you can restore the backup to new VMs in the future.

> ### 5. Evict workloads out of the deleting node
> 
> You can manually live-migrate VMs (see [Live Migration](../vm/live-migration.md)) on the deleting node to other nodes.
> 
> If your cluster runs a Harvester version newer than `v1.1.2` (inclusive), you can also set the deleting node to maintenance mode (see [Node Maintenance](./host.md#node-maintenance)) to automatically live-migrate VMs and workload out of the node. You can confirm all workloads on the deleting node are evicted successfully by checking a node's state is set to `Maintenance`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 5. Evict workloads from the node to be removed.

If your cluster is running Harvester v1.1.2 or later, you can enable [Maintenance Mode](./host.md#node-maintenance) on the node to automatically live-migrate VMs and workloads. You can also [manually live-migrate](/vm/live-migration.md#starting-a-migration) VMs to other nodes.

All workloads have been successfully evicted if the node state is **Maintenance**.
```

![node-maintain-completed.png](/img/v1.3/host/node-maintain-completed.png)

> :::note
> 
> If there are only two control plane nodes left in the cluster, Harvester doesn't allow setting a node to maintenance mode. You need to manually drain the node with the command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::info important
If a cluster has only two control plane nodes, Harvester does not allow you to enable Maintenance Mode on any node. You can manually drain the node to be removed using the following command:
```

```
kubectl drain <node_name> --force --ignore-daemonsets --delete-local-data --pod-selector='app!=csi-attacher,app!=csi-provisioner'
```

> Please replace `node_name` with the deleting node. Again, removing a control plane node when there are only two control plane nodes left in the cluster is **not recommended**. Please use it at your own risk.
> 
> :::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Again, removing a control plane node in this situation is **not recommended** because etcd data is not replicated. Failure of a single node can cause etcd to lose its quorum and shut the cluster down.
:::
```

> ### 6. Delete the node.
> 
> - Go to the **Hosts** page
> - On the node you want to modify, click **⋮ > Delete**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 6. Remove the node.

1. On the Harvester UI, go to the **Hosts** screen.

1. Locate the node that you want to remove, and then click **⋮ > Delete**.
```

![delete.png](/img/v1.2/host/delete-node.png)

> ### 7. Delete RKE2 services on the node
> 
> - Login to the node as root
> - Run the `/opt/rke2/bin/rke2-uninstall.sh` script to delete the RKE2 service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 7. Delete RKE2 services on the node.

1. Log in to the node using the root account.

1. Run the script `/opt/rke2/bin/rke2-uninstall.sh`.
```

## Deleting a Node

:::caution

Before removing a node from a Harvester cluster, determine if the remaining nodes have enough computing and storage resources to take on the workload from the node to be removed. Check the following:

- Current resource usage in the cluster (on the **Hosts** screen of the Harvester UI)
- Ability of the remaining nodes to maintain enough replicas for all volumes

> If the remaining nodes do not have enough resources, VMs might fail to start and volumes might degrade when you remove a node.

Reviewer 3: Did it mean the VM failed to migrate?
The running VM did not need to start again.

Reviewer 4: I think it's **VMs may fail to migrate due to a shortage of storage**?

Author: Thanks, add in https://github.com/harvester/docs/pull/507/commits/889a4a192ba3ecbb3c71addc737f8d512ed8080e

Author: @WebberHuang1118 it's not entirely just storage, could be cpu/memory. Thus I use the general term resource here.

- The cluster has only two control plane nodes and no worker nodes.

  Removing a control plane node in this situation is not recommended because etcd data is not replicated in a single-node cluster. Failure of a single node can cause etcd to lose its quorum and shut the cluster down.

### 2. Check the status of volumes.

1. Access the [embedded Longhorn UI](../troubleshooting/harvester.md#access-embedded-rancher-and-longhorn-dashboards).

1. Go to the **Volume** screen.

1. Verify that the state of all volumes is **Healthy**.

### 3. Evict replicas from the node to be removed.

1. Access the [embedded Longhorn UI](../troubleshooting/harvester.md#access-embedded-rancher-and-longhorn-dashboards).

1. Go to the **Node** screen.
1. Select the node that you want to remove, click the icon in the **Operation** column, and then select **Edit node and disks**.

1. Configure the following settings:

  - **Node Scheduling**: Select **Disable**.
  - **Evict Requested**" Select **True**.

1. Click **Save**.

> 1. Go back to the **Node** screen and verify that **Replicas** value for the node to be removed is **0**.

Reviewer 4: Do we need an indent here?

Author: nice spot: it looks OK in the preview https://65f2b02337ffb294638e3ef6--harvester-preview.netlify.app/v1.3/host/#3-evict-replicas-from-the-node-to-be-removed
